ciao-docs-enricher
==================

*CIP to enrich parsed documents with additional properties*

Introduction
------------

The purpose of this CIP is to process an incoming [parsed document][1] by
enriching it with additional properties before publishing the enriched document
for further processing by other CIPs.

[1]: <https://github.com/nhs-ciao/ciao-docs-parser>

`ciao-docs-enricher` is built on top of [Apache Camel][2] and [Spring
Framework][3], and can be run as a stand-alone Java application, or via
[Docker][4].

[2]: <http://camel.apache.org/>

[3]: <http://projects.spring.io/spring-framework/>

[4]: <https://www.docker.com/>

Each application can host multiple [routes][5], where each route follows the
following basic structure:

[5]: <http://camel.apache.org/routes.html>

>   input queue (JMS) -\> `DocumentEnricher` or `AsyncDocumentEnricher` -\> output
>   queue (JMS)

The details of the JMS queues and document enrichers are specified at runtime
through a combination of [ciao-configuration][6] properties and Spring XML
files.

[6]: <https://github.com/nhs-ciao/ciao-utils>

The following document enricher implementations are provided:

-   [JsonResourceDocumentEnricher][7] - An enricher which reads JSON content
    from the filesystem or classpath and merges it into the document properties.
    This can be used to include static content which cannot be obtained from the
    original source document.

[7]: <./ciao-docs-enricher/src/main/java/uk/nhs/ciao/docs/enricher/JsonResourceDocumentEnricher.java>

-   `PDSDocumentEnricher` - An enricher which performs a PDS lookup based on
    properties previously extracted from the source document (e.g. NHS number),
    and merges the retrieved detail into the document properties.

For more advanced usages, a custom document enricher can be integrated by
implementing one of the enricher Java interfaces and providing a suitable spring
XML configuration on the classpath.

Configuration
-------------

For further details of how ciao-configuration and Spring XML interact, please
see [ciao-core][8].

[8]: <https://github.com/nhs-ciao/ciao-core>

### Spring XML

On application start-up, a series of Spring Framework XML files are used to
construct the core application objects. The created objects include the main
Camel context, input/output components, routes and any intermediate processors.

The configuration is split into multiple XML files, each covering a separate
area of the application. These files are selectively included at runtime via
CIAO properties, allowing alternative technologies and/or implementations to be
chosen. Each imported XML file can support a different set of CIAO properties.

The Spring XML files are loaded from the classpath under the
[META-INF/spring][9] package.

[9]: <./ciao-docs-enricher/src/main/resources/META-INF/spring>

**Core:**

-   `beans.xml` - The main configuration responsible for initialising
    properties, importing additional resources and starting Camel.

**Processors:**

-   `processors/default.xml` - Creates a single `JsonResourceDocumentEnricher`
    to load static content from the classpath or filesystem

**Messaging:**

-   `messaging/activemq.xm`l - Configures ActiveMQ as the JMS implementation for
    input/output queues.

-   `messaging/activemq-embedded.xml` - Configures an internal embedded ActiveMQ
    as the JMS implementation for input/output queues. *(For use during
    development/testing)*

### CIAO Properties

At runtime ciao-docs-enricher uses the available CIAO properties to determine
which Spring XML files to load, which Camel routes to create, and how individual
routes and components should be wired.

**Spring Configuration:**

-   `processorConfig` - Selects which processor configuration to load:
    `processors/${processorConfig}.xml`

-   `messagingConfig` - Selects which messaging configuration to load:
    `messaging/${messagingConfig}.xml`

**Routes:**

-   `documentEnricherRoutes` - A comma separated list of route names to build

The list of route names serves two purposes. Firstly it determines how many
routes to build, and secondly each name is used as a prefix to specify the
individual properties of that route.

**Route Configuration:**

>   For 'specific' properties unique to a single route, use the prefix:
>   `documentEnricherRoutes.${routeName}.`
>
>   For 'generic' properties covering all routes, use the prefix:
>   `documentEnricherRoutes.`

-   `inputQueue` - Selects which queue to consume incoming documents from

-   `enricherId` - The Spring ID of the enricher to use when enriching documents

-   `outputQueue` - Selects which queue to publish enriched documents to

**Default Processorâ€‹:**

>   These properties only apply when using: `processorConfiguration=default`

-   `staticJson.resourcePaths` - A comma separated list of JSON resources to
    include. Spring resource loader syntax is supported, e.g. `classpath:`,
    `file:` etc).

### Example
```INI
# Select which processor config to use (via dynamic spring imports)
processorConfig=default

# Select which messaging config to use (via dynamic spring imports)
messagingConfig=activemq
# messagingConfig=activemq-embedded

# ActiveMQ settings (if messagingConfig=activemq)
activemq.brokerURL=tcp://localhost:61616
activemq.userName=smx
activemq.password=smx

# Setup route names (and how many routes to build)
documentEnricherRoutes=default

# Setup 'shared' properties across all-routes
documentEnricherRoutes.outputQueue=enriched-documents

# Setup per-route properties (can override the shared properties)
documentEnricherRoutes.default.enricherId=staticJson
documentEnricherRoutes.default.inputQueue=parsed-documents

staticJson.resourcePaths=classpath:/json/extra-detail.json
```
